---
layout: post
title:  "Yo Jekyll ! meet gitHub"
date:   2013-08-27 16:17:15
categories: [code]
tags: [front end]
description: "How I threw my comp by the window..."
---

#Yo gitHub ! meet Jekyll

Starting a blog about web development, how I feel about this job and all the thing I learn doing them; it is quite natural to begin the thing that I learned most recently, how I made this blog !

When I first thought of writing this blog, I was wondering what tech to use. Designing smalls projects is always an opportunity to try some *I looks so cool to use it* tool. I was reading the blog of @Addy Osmani about Yeoman 1.0 release (go check this awesome helper). In his announce he talked about a Jekyll generator. If you ever checked @github-pages you already heard of it. It allow you to build statics websites and for your pleasure it’s blog aware.
Yeoman is an amazing help to discover a new tool, It will do all the fastidious thing when you build your @website, @webapp, something@solarClock. It’ll not help you to bring the rabbit out of the hat. But it’ll take care of many of the ambush on the road. It will actually tell you what it’s missing instead of just not work. Once you set it up just run the Jekyll generator !

Back to Jekyll !
Ask grunt to serve your website... And bim ! It works !

If you get there I assume that I don't need to explain how to use HTML & CSS to make it handsome...
Depending on what you ask the generator to build, you’ll have CSS or SCSS files. If you want to use your thing it's up to you, just customise your grunt configuration.

To use ’dynamic’ data in you pages or posts the templating system is @liquid with one or two @jekyll things in it. You can print the high storage object to see what's available to you.

Now you got your pages all nicely set up, how about getting available to the outside world ? Many tools are offered to you, @heroku and @github can be your friend. All my personal projects are already on GitHub so I chose it for this blog. Send the content of you built folder to the master branch of your username.github.io repository or on the gh-pages branch of any repo to make it public.
It's so nice and easy!


Brew, rbenv, ruby, ruby-build, bundle install,  npm install, bower install, yo, jekyllrb.
